.TH "THIRTEEN" 8 "2025-09-18" "Thirteen Gopher Server" "thirteen"

.SH NAME
thirteen \- A lightweight Gopher server

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY thirteen
[-\fBdesc\fR \fIdesc\fR]
[-\fBexclude\fR \fIextension\fR]
[-\fBlisten\fR \fI[host:]port\fR]
[-\fBmaxconn\fR \fImaxconn\fR]
[-\fBroot\fR \fIroot\fR]
[-\fBrtmo\fR \fIrtmo\fR]
[-\fBserverhost\fR \fIhost\fR]
[-\fBserverport\fR \fIport\fR]
[-\fBuser\fR \fIuser\fR]
[-\fBwtmo\fR \fIwtmo\fR]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Thirteen is a lightweight Gopher server.
It is mostly compliant with RFC 1436.
.SH OPTIONS



.TP
\fB-desc\fR \fIdescription\fR
The server description.
There is no default value.
.TP
\fB-exclude\fR \fIextension\fR
Exclude files with the given extension.
E.g., \fB-exclude .hidden\fR or \fB-exclude hidden\fR will cause Thirteen not to serve any file with an extension of \fBhidden\fR.
.TP
\fB-listen\fR \fI[host:]port\fR
The port and optionally host to listen on.
The default is 70 which means listen on port 70 on all interfaces.
.TP
\fB-maxconn\fR \fIconnections\fR
The maximum number of simultaneous connections.
The default is 1000.
.TP
\fB-root\fR \fIdirectory\fR
The site root directory.
The default is \fB/srv/gopher\fR.
.TP
\fB-rtmo\fR \fIseconds\fR
Request timeout in seconds.
How long to wait to receive a complete request.
Setting to 0 disables request timeout (not recommended).
The default is 60.
.TP
\fB-serverhost\fR \fIname\fR
The server host name.
The default is \fBlocalhost\fR.
.TP
\fB-serverport\fR \fIport\fR
The port to include in menus.
The default is to use the port to listen on.
.TP
\fB-user\fR \fIuser\fR
The user to run as.
There is no default value.
.TP
\fB-wtmo\fR \fIseconds\fR
Response timeout in seconds.
How long to wait for progress to be made on the response.
Setting to 0 disables response timeout.
The default is 300.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 Christopher Williams.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
